[DOCUMENTATION][feature/otx] Explanation section. PR 2 (#1566)
open-edge-platform/training_extensions: docs/source/explanation/algorithms/segmentation/semantic_segmentation.rst

Semantic Segmentation
=====================

Semantic segmentation is a computer vision task in which an algorithm assigns a label or class to each pixel in an image.
For example, semantic segmentation can be used to identify the boundaries of different objects in an image, such as cars, buildings, and trees.

> The output of semantic segmentation is typically an image where each pixel is colored with a different color or label depending on its class.

Reviewer: New paragraph (double enter). Also, it'd be nice to add an image, visualizing semantic segmentation inference, what do you think?

Author: good idea!

We solve this task by utilizing `FCN Head <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1411.4038.pdf>`_ with implementation from `MMSegmentation <https://mmsegmentation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_modules/mmseg/models/decode_heads/fcn_head.html>`_ on the multi-level image features obtained by the feature extractor backbone (`Lite-HRNet <https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.06403>`_).
For the supervised training we use the following algorithms components:

.. _semantic_segmentation_supervised_pipeline:

> - ``Augmentations``: Besides basic augmentations like random flip, randomly rotate and random crop, we use mixing images technique with different `photometric distortions <https://mmsegmentation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html#mmseg.datasets.pipelines.PhotoMetricDistortion>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``Augmentations``: Besides basic augmentations like random flip, random rotate, and random crop, we use mixing images technique with different `photometric distortions <https://mmsegmentation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html#mmseg.datasets.pipelines.PhotoMetricDistortion>`_.
```

- ``Optimizer``: We use `Adam <https://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6980>`_ optimizer with weight decay set to zero and gradient clipping with maximum quadratic norm equals to 40.

- ``Learning rate schedule``: For scheduling training process we use **ReduceLrOnPlataeu** with linear learning rate warmup for 80 iterations. This method monitors a target metric (in our case we use metric on the validation set) and if no improvement is seen for a 'patience' number of epochs, the learning rate is reduced.

- ``Loss function``: We use `max-pooling loss <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1704.02966.pdf>`_ with standard `Cross Entropy Loss <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross_entropy>`_ as the base for handling imbalanced training data distributions. This technique helps re-weighting the contributions of each pixel based on their loss value, targeting under-performing classification categories.

> - Additionally, we use **early stopping** to add adaptability to the training pipeline and prevent overfitting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Additionally, we use the **early stopping** to add adaptability to the training pipeline and prevent overfitting.
```

**************
Dataset Format
**************

For the dataset handling inside OTX we use `Dataset Management Framework (Datumaro) <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro>`_. At this end we support `ADE20K <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/ade20k2020/>`_, `Cityscapes <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/cityscapes/>`_, `Pascal VOC <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/pascal_voc/>`_ and `Common Semantic Segmentation <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/common_semantic_segmentation/>`_ data formats.
Running training with these dataset formats is very simple. We just need to pass a path to the root folder and desired model template to start training:

.. code-block::

    $ otx {train, optimize} <model_template> --train-data-root <path_to_data_root>

> If we have a dataset in the format below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do that, we need to have a dataset with the following format:
```

Author: That is not what I meant. I rephrased it a bit

::

    data
        ├── images
            ├── train
                ├── 0.png
                ├── 1.png
                ...
                └── N.png
            ├── val
                ├── 0.png
                ├── 1.png
                ...
                └── N.png
        └── annotations
            ├── train
                ├── 0.png
                ├── 1.png
                ...
                └── N.png
            ├── val
                ├── 0.png
                ├── 1.png
                ...
                └── N.png

> Where we have images and segmentation annotations masks with the same naming. Then we also can start training directly passing the training and validation root paths as well as the training and validation segmentation masks paths like in the following command line:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There we have images and segmentation annotations masks with the same naming. 

We also can start training directly by passing the training and validation root paths as well as the training and validation segmentation masks path:

.. code-block::

    $ otx {train, optimize} <model_template> --train-data-root <path_to_train_images_folder> --val-data-root <path_to_val_images_folder> --train-ann-files <path_to_train_segmentation_masks_folder> --val-ann-files <path_to_val_segmentation_masks_folder>

.. note::

> Please, refer to our :doc:`dedicated tutorial <../../../tutorials/base/how_to_train/semantic_segmentation>` for more information on how to train, validate and optimize the semantic segmentation model.

Reviewer: You need to add an indent here for a proper rendering

| `Custom_Semantic_Segmentation_Lite-HRNet-18-mod2_OCR <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/training_extensions/blob/feature/otx/otx/algorithms/segmentation/configs/ocr_lite_hrnet_18_mod2/template.yaml>`_                    | Lite-HRNet-18-mod2     | 3.63                | 4.8             |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+
| `Custom_Semantic_Segmentation_Lite-HRNet-x-mod3_OCR <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/training_extensions/blob/feature/otx/otx/algorithms/segmentation/configs/ocr_lite_hrnet_x_mod3/template.yaml>`_                      | Lite-HRNet-x-mod3      | 13.97               | 6.4             |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+

> All of these models are members of the same `Lite-HRNet <https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.06403>`_ backbones family. They differ in the trade-off between accuracy and inference/training speed. Lite-HRNet-x-mod3 is the template with heavy-size architecture for accurate predictions but long training.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of these models are members of the same `Lite-HRNet <https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.06403>`_ backbones family. They differ in the trade-off between accuracy and inference/training speed. Lite-HRNet-x-mod3 is the template with heavy-size architecture for accurate predictions but it requires long training.
```

+-----------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+
| Model name            | ADE20k       | Cityscapes | Pascal-VOC 2007 |
+=======================+==============+============+=================+
| Lite-HRNet-s-mod2     | N/A          | N/A        | N/A             |
+-----------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+
| Lite-HRNet-18         | N/A          | N/A        | N/A             |
+-----------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+
| Lite-HRNet-18-mod2    | N/A          | N/A        | N/A             |
+-----------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+
| Lite-HRNet-x-mod3     | N/A          | N/A        | N/A             |
+-----------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+

************************
Semi-supervised Learning
************************

Semi-supervised semantic segmentation is a variation of the semantic segmentation task, where only a subset of the data is labeled.

> The goal is to train a model to predict the class labels of the pixels in an image, using both labeled and unlabeled data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal is to train a model to predict the class labels of the pixels in an image, using both **labeled and unlabeled data**.
```

In this way, the model can make use of both labeled data to learn the class labels, and unlabeled data to learn the underlying structure of the image.
This can be useful in situations where acquiring labeled data is expensive or time-consuming.

> To solve this problem we use the Mean Teacher algorithm. The basic idea of this approach is to use two models during training: a "student" model, which is the main model being trained, and a "teacher" model, which acts as a guide for the student model.

Reviewer: Maybe a link for a Mean Teacher?

The student model is updated based on the ground truth annotations (for the labeled data) and pseudo-labels (for the unlabeled data) which are the predictions of the teacher model.
The teacher model is updated based on the moving average of the student model's parameters. So, we don't use backward loss propagation for the teacher model's parameters.
After training, only the student model is used for prediction.

We utilize the same core algorithm's parameters as for the :ref:`supervised pipeline <semantic_segmentation_supervised_pipeline>`. The main difference is to use of different augmentation pipelines for the labeled and unlabeled data.
We use only basic augmentations (random flip, random rotate, random crop) for the labeled data and more severe for the unlabeled (the same as we use for the :ref:`supervised pipeline <semantic_segmentation_supervised_pipeline>`).

> It helps for better generalization and prevents unnecessary overfitting on the pseudo-labels generated by the teacher model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It helps with a better generalization and prevents unnecessary overfitting on the pseudo-labels generated by the teacher model.
```

Semantic Segmentation
=====================

> 

Reviewer: I'm not sure why, but this line is mentioned in warning during compilation (make HTML): ` WARNING: Duplicate explicit target name: "cityscapes".` Can you check it please?

.. _semantic_segmentation_image_example:

.. image:: ../../../../utils/images/semantic_seg_example.png
  :width: 600
  :alt: image uploaded from this `source <https://arxiv.org/abs/1912.03183>`_

We solve this task by utilizing `FCN Head <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1411.4038.pdf>`_ with implementation from `MMSegmentation <https://mmsegmentation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_modules/mmseg/models/decode_heads/fcn_head.html>`_ on the multi-level image features obtained by the feature extractor backbone (`Lite-HRNet <https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.06403>`_).
For the supervised training we use the following algorithms components:

.. _semantic_segmentation_supervised_pipeline:

- ``Augmentations``: Besides basic augmentations like random flip, random rotate and random crop, we use mixing images technique with different `photometric distortions <https://mmsegmentation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html#mmseg.datasets.pipelines.PhotoMetricDistortion>`_.

- ``Optimizer``: We use `Adam <https://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6980>`_ optimizer with weight decay set to zero and gradient clipping with maximum quadratic norm equals to 40.

> - ``Learning rate schedule``: For scheduling training process we use **ReduceLrOnPlataeu** with linear learning rate warmup for 80 iterations. This method monitors a target metric (in our case we use metric on the validation set) and if no improvement is seen for a 'patience' number of epochs, the learning rate is reduced.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``Learning rate schedule``: For scheduling training process we use **ReduceLROnPlateau** with linear learning rate warmup for 100 iterations. This method monitors a target metric (in our case we use metric on the validation set) and if no improvement is seen for a 'patience' number of epochs, the learning rate is reduced.
```

https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/training_extensions/blob/feature/otx/otx/algorithms/segmentation/configs/ocr_lite_hrnet_18_mod2/template.yaml#L36

> - ``Loss function``: We use `max-pooling loss <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1704.02966.pdf>`_ with standard `Cross Entropy Loss <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross_entropy>`_ as the base for handling imbalanced training data distributions. This technique helps re-weighting the contributions of each pixel based on their loss value, targeting under-performing classification categories.

Reviewer 2: We are not using `max-pooling loss`: https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/training_extensions/blob/feature/otx/otx/algorithms/segmentation/configs/ocr_lite_hrnet_18_mod2/model.py#L43

- Additionally, we use the **early stopping** to add adaptability to the training pipeline and prevent overfitting.

**************
Dataset Format
**************

> For the dataset handling inside OTX we use `Dataset Management Framework (Datumaro) <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro>`_. At this end we support `ADE20K <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/ade20k2020/>`_, `Cityscapes <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/cityscapes/>`_, `Pascal VOC <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/pascal_voc/>`_ and `Common Semantic Segmentation <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/common_semantic_segmentation/>`_ data formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the dataset handling inside OTX we use `Dataset Management Framework (Datumaro) <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/datumaro>`_. 

At this end we support `ADE20K <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/ade20k2020/>`_, `Cityscapes <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/cityscapes/>`_, `Pascal VOC <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/pascal_voc/>`_ and `Common Semantic Segmentation <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/common_semantic_segmentation/>`_ data formats.
```

> Running training with these dataset formats is very simple. We just need to pass a path to the root folder and desired model template to start training:

Reviewer 2: How about
```suggestion
If you organized supported dataset format, starting training will be very simple. We just need to pass a path to the root folder and desired model template to start training:
```

.. code-block::

    $ otx {train, optimize} <model_template> --train-data-root <path_to_data_root>

> When we have a dataset in the format below, where we have images and segmentation annotations masks with the same naming:

Reviewer 2: How about
```suggestion
Image-annotation pairs are supposed to have same name as below:
```

::

    data
        ├── images
            ├── train

>                 ├── 0.png

Reviewer 2: Is `png` supported extender for images? I've used only `jpg` for images, `png` for annotations.

                ├── 1.jpg
                ...
                └── N.jpg
            ├── val
                ├── 0.jpg
                ├── 1.jpg
                ...
                └── N.jpg
        └── annotations
            ├── train
                ├── 0.png
                ├── 1.png
                ...
                └── N.png
            ├── val
                ├── 0.png
                ├── 1.png
                ...
                └── N.png

.. note::

    Please, note, that images should have ``.jpg`` extension and segmentation masks should be ``.png``.

> Since this format isn't handle by Datumaro we can start training by passing the training and validation data paths manually:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since this format isn't handled by Datumaro, we can start training by passing the training and validation data paths manually:
```

> We also can start training directly passing the training and validation root paths as well as the training and validation segmentation masks paths like in the following command line:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can also start training by passing the training and validation data paths manually:
```

| Template ID                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Name                   | Complexity (GFLOPs) | Model size (MB) |
+==============================================================================================================================================================================================================================+========================+=====================+=================+
| `Custom_Semantic_Segmentation_Lite-HRNet-s-mod2_OCR <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/training_extensions/blob/feature/otx/otx/algorithms/segmentation/configs/ocr_lite_hrnet_s_mod2/template.yaml>`_                      | Lite-HRNet-s-mod2      | 1.82                | 3.5             |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+

> | `Custom_Semantic_Segmentation_Lite-HRNet-18_OCR <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/training_extensions/blob/feature/otx/otx/algorithms/segmentation/configs/ocr_lite_hrnet_18/template.yaml>`_                              | Lite-HRNet-18          | 3.45                | 4.5             |

Reviewer 2: Hmm, Lite-HRNet family in OTX does not have OCR head now, so the complexity and model size maybe inaccurate.

Author: That's a good point if no one recomputed the model size - we need to do it once again. I will check it.

+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+

> | `Custom_Semantic_Segmentation_Lite-HRNet-18-mod2_OCR <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/training_extensions/blob/feature/otx/otx/algorithms/segmentation/configs/ocr_lite_hrnet_18_mod2/template.yaml>`_                    | Lite-HRNet-18-mod2     | 3.63                | 4.8             |

Reviewer 2: There is no reason to have different complexity/model size compared with `Lite-HRNet-18`, `18-mod2` has exactly same architecture, only training scheme is different. (No freeze layers, uses adam instead of SGD).

Author: But we have two different templates. I see the solution simply not mention the first version of the Lite-HRNet-18. I think it will only misslead a user

Reviewer 2: Oh yes, I agree! My concern will be resolved absolutely after updating complexity and model size for each templates. Let's keep one row for one template.

+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+
| `Custom_Semantic_Segmentation_Lite-HRNet-x-mod3_OCR <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/training_extensions/blob/feature/otx/otx/algorithms/segmentation/configs/ocr_lite_hrnet_x_mod3/template.yaml>`_                      | Lite-HRNet-x-mod3      | 13.97               | 6.4             |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------+---------------------+-----------------+

All of these models are members of the same `Lite-HRNet <https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.06403>`_ backbones family. They differ in the trade-off between accuracy and inference/training speed. Lite-HRNet-x-mod3 is the template with heavy-size architecture for accurate predictions but it requires long training.

> Whereas the Lite-HRNet-s-mod2 is the lightweight architecture for fast inference and training. It is the best choice for the scenario of a limited amount of data. The Lite-HRNet-18 model is the middle-sized architecture for the balance between fast inference and training time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Whereas the Lite-HRNet-s-mod2 is the lightweight architecture for fast inference and training. It is the best choice for the scenario of a limited amount of data. The Lite-HRNet-18-mod2 model is the middle-sized architecture for the balance between fast inference and training time.
```

> In the table below the `Dice score <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S%C3%B8rensen%E2%80%93Dice_coefficient>`_ on some academic datasets using our :ref:`supervised pipeline <semantic_segmentation_supervised_pipeline>` is presented. The results were obtained on our templates without any changes. We use 512x512 image crop resolution, for other hyperparameters, please, refer to the related template. We trained all models on 1 GPU Nvidia GeForce GTX3090.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the table below the `Dice score <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S%C3%B8rensen%E2%80%93Dice_coefficient>`_ on some academic datasets using our :ref:`supervised pipeline <semantic_segmentation_supervised_pipeline>` is presented. The results were obtained on our templates without any changes. We use 512x512 image crop resolution, for other hyperparameters, please, refer to the related template. We trained each model with single Nvidia GeForce RTX3090.
```

+-----------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+

> | Model name            | ADE20k       | Cityscapes | Pascal-VOC 2007 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Model name            | ADE20k       | Cityscapes | Pascal-VOC 2012 |
```

+-----------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+
| Model name            | ADE20k       | Cityscapes | Pascal-VOC 2012 |
+=======================+==============+============+=================+
| Lite-HRNet-s-mod2     | N/A          | N/A        | N/A             |
+-----------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+
| Lite-HRNet-18-mod2    | N/A          | N/A        | N/A             |
+-----------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+
| Lite-HRNet-x-mod3     | N/A          | N/A        | N/A             |
+-----------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+

************************
Semi-supervised Learning
************************

> To solve Semi-supervised learning problem for the semantic segmentation we use the `Mean Teacher algorithm <https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.01780>`_. The basic idea of this approach is to use two models during training: a "student" model, which is the main model being trained, and a "teacher" model, which acts as a guide for the student model.

Reviewer: Can you please add a line here: "to learn about Semi-supervised Learning refer to algorithms/index?

The teacher model is updated based on the moving average of the student model's parameters. So, we don't use backward loss propagation for the teacher model's parameters.
After training, only the student model is used for prediction.

We utilize the same core algorithm's parameters as for the :ref:`supervised pipeline <semantic_segmentation_supervised_pipeline>`. The main difference is to use of different augmentation pipelines for the labeled and unlabeled data.
We use only basic augmentations (random flip, random rotate, random crop) for the labeled data and more severe for the unlabeled (the same as we use for the :ref:`supervised pipeline <semantic_segmentation_supervised_pipeline>`).
It helps with a better generalization and prevents unnecessary overfitting on the pseudo-labels generated by the teacher model.

In the table below the `Dice score <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S%C3%B8rensen%E2%80%93Dice_coefficient>`_ with our middle template on some datasets is presented. For comparison, we present the supervised baseline trained on the labeled data only.

> The results were obtained on our templates without any changes. We use 512x512 image resolution, for other hyperparameters, please, refer to the `related template <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/training_extensions/blob/feature/otx/otx/algorithms/segmentation/configs/ocr_lite_hrnet_18_mod2/template.yaml>`_. We trained all models on 1 GPU Nvidia GeForce GTX3090.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The results were obtained on our templates without any changes. We use 512x512 image resolution, for other hyperparameters, please, refer to the `related template <https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/training_extensions/blob/feature/otx/otx/algorithms/segmentation/configs/ocr_lite_hrnet_18_mod2/template.yaml>`_. We trained each model with single Nvidia GeForce RTX3090.
```

> For `Cityscapes <https://www.cityscapes-dataset.com/>`_ and `Pascal-VOC <http://host.robots.ox.ac.uk/pascal/VOC/voc2007/index.html>`_ we use splits with different ratios of labeled to unlabeled data like `here <https://github.com/charlesCXK/TorchSemiSeg>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For `Cityscapes <https://www.cityscapes-dataset.com/>`_ and `Pascal-VOC <http://host.robots.ox.ac.uk/pascal/VOC/voc2012/index.html>`_ we use splits with different ratios of labeled to unlabeled data like `here <https://github.com/charlesCXK/TorchSemiSeg>`_.
```

Author: Is it more common to validate on the 2012 version?

For the `DIS5K <https://xuebinqin.github.io/dis/index.html>`_ we prepared random splits for the train data with different ratios of labeled to unlabeled images. We use the validation set for testing purposes.

+-------------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+
| Model name                          |  DIS5K       | Cityscapes | Pascal-VOC      |
+=====================================+==============+============+=================+
| Supervised Lite-HRNet-18-mod2 (1/8) | N/A          | N/A        | N/A             |
+-------------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+
| Semi-SL Lite-HRNet-18-mod2 (1/8)         | N/A          | N/A        | N/A             |
+-------------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+
| Supervised Lite-HRNet-18-mod2 (1/16)| N/A          | N/A        | N/A             |
+-------------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+
| Semi-SL Lite-HRNet-18-mod2 (1/16)        | N/A          | N/A        | N/A             |

> +-------------------------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+

Reviewer: Can you please fix the indents in this table? it provokes an error warning during the compilation, so the table isn't shown

For the supervised training we use the following algorithms components:

.. _semantic_segmentation_supervised_pipeline:

- ``Augmentations``: Besides basic augmentations like random flip, random rotate and random crop, we use mixing images technique with different `photometric distortions <https://mmsegmentation.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html#mmseg.datasets.pipelines.PhotoMetricDistortion>`_.

- ``Optimizer``: We use `Adam <https://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6980>`_ optimizer with weight decay set to zero and gradient clipping with maximum quadratic norm equals to 40.

- ``Learning rate schedule``: For scheduling training process we use **ReduceLROnPlataeu** with linear learning rate warmup for 100 iterations. This method monitors a target metric (in our case we use metric on the validation set) and if no improvement is seen for a 'patience' number of epochs, the learning rate is reduced.

> - ``Loss function``: We use standart `Cross Entropy Loss <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross_entropy>`_  to train a model.

Reviewer 3: @JihwanEom Do you think we need to explain the ignore management in loss?

Author: Why do we silently substitute losses and other components in config?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/68103869/216462093-8edd066e-e1f4-4b45-8813-0fc3d863177a.png)
task_adapt always True for each config-> why can't we directly point which loss we are using in config? Not just `Cross Entropy`, but `CrossEntropyWithIgnore`

Author: Anyway, it is for class incremental -> for incremental learning exists an additional section below which hasn't been filled yet

Reviewer 3: Yeah if we have a additional section for incremental, it would be good to explain in there.

At this end we support `ADE20K <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/ade20k2020/>`_, `Cityscapes <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/cityscapes/>`__, `Pascal VOC <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/pascal_voc/>`_ and `Common Semantic Segmentation <https://openvinotoolkit.github.io/datumaro/docs/formats/common_semantic_segmentation/>`_ data formats.
If you organized supported dataset format, starting training will be very simple. We just need to pass a path to the root folder and desired model template to start training:

.. code-block::

    $ otx {train, optimize} <model_template> --train-data-root <path_to_data_root>

.. note::

    OTX will recognize train and validation splits automatically. If you want to emphasize the validation dataset root path, you can simply add the ``--val-data-root <path_to_val_data_root>`` option.

    Please, refer to our :doc:`dedicated tutorial <../../../tutorials/base/how_to_train/semantic_segmentation>` how to train, validate and optimize semantic segmentation model for more details.

> 

Reviewer 3: Before saying that we support the custom format in seg, I hope we add the description line that we basically support VOC and cityscapes dataset original format in Datumaro.

Author: I'm not fully understand what you mean by that, but I described data formats supported by Datumaro in the 36-41 lines. Even gave a CLI command line how to run training

For now, we also support a dataset in the custom format below, where image-annotation pairs have the same name:

::

    data
        ├── images
            ├── train
                ├── 0.jpg
                ├── 1.jpg
                ...
                └── N.jpg
            ├── val
                ├── 0.jpg
                ├── 1.jpg
                ...
                └── N.jpg

>         └── annotations

Reviewer 3: This should be "masks" for datumaro format. Isn't it? @sungmanc

Author: What is the masks? Proper naming for "images" and "annotations"? Yes, @sungmanc, where can I find exact folders naming for each format?

Author: We can pass `--train-data-root` to train and `--val-data-root` to val and the training will be started

+-----------------------+--------------+------------+-----------------+

************************
Semi-supervised Learning
************************

To solve :ref:`Semi-supervised learning <semi_sl_explanation>` problem for the semantic segmentation we use the `Mean Teacher algorithm <https://arxiv.org/abs/1703.01780>`_. The basic idea of this approach is to use two models during training: a "student" model, which is the main model being trained, and a "teacher" model, which acts as a guide for the student model.
The student model is updated based on the ground truth annotations (for the labeled data) and pseudo-labels (for the unlabeled data) which are the predictions of the teacher model.
The teacher model is updated based on the moving average of the student model's parameters. So, we don't use backward loss propagation for the teacher model's parameters.
After training, only the student model is used for prediction.

We utilize the same core algorithm's parameters as for the :ref:`supervised pipeline <semantic_segmentation_supervised_pipeline>`. The main difference is to use of different augmentation pipelines for the labeled and unlabeled data.

> We use only basic augmentations (random flip, random rotate, random crop) for the labeled data and more severe for the unlabeled (the same as we use for the :ref:`supervised pipeline <semantic_segmentation_supervised_pipeline>`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We use only basic augmentations (random flip, random rotate, random crop) for the labeled data and stronger for the unlabeled (color distortion).
```
